Code Freeze: Jan 12, 2024
## Photo Module

A new Photo Module has been added to Site Builder. This will allow you to show the most recently added photos. In addition to general search options, this module allows for horizontal and vertical display orientations, hiding the border, type of image scaling used, height of the module.

- Photo specific search [[module]] that displays images found. 
- Horizontal and Vertical orientations
- can set height in module options
- optional borders.
- Colored backgrounds and resizing option.
## Reaction Manager

- Add/remove [[reactions]] in the AdminCP.
	- Defined Labels/Names for your Reactions.
	- Upload custom images.
	- Or use custom HTML for emoji or text reactions.
	- Control size, background, border radius with Style Variables.
	- Display Order Sorting available.
	- Determine if Reactions add to reputation or Ranks.
	- Resize via Style Variables. Bubble Border radius size: controls background border.  Bubble Size - controls outside border. Emoji Size controls the overall size of the reactions. 
	- Double-click protection added to reactions.

## Default Avatars

- New default [[avatar]] system has been implemented. The default avatar for each user will be a generated image with the first letter of the username on a colored background. If the user name changes, the avatar will change as well.
- Avatar Border [[Style Variables]] consolidated to 1 style variable. Border set to 0 on default themes.
- Avatar code consolidated across systems to remove redundancy. 

## Expiring Topics

Administrators can set the topics in a channel to expire based on the last post date or topic start date. This is done in the Channel Manager by editing the Channel Options.

When a channel is configured to have automatically expiring topics, these are handled by the Daily Cleanup scheduled task. Due to the handing of scheduled tasks, some topics may remain open an extra day. Using the server task scheduler via [[vbcron.php]] can help alleviate this issue.

#release_notes

