### Home Node Permissions

A general refactor of how channel permissions are handled on the Home Node has been applied.

- The Terms of Service page, Privacy Policy page, and AdminCP login will now always be available even if guests cannot view the Home Node.
- You can now assign viewing permissions per page in the AdminCP under Usergroups → Page Permissions. This allows control over pages to fit your site's needs.
- Special Groups (i.e. Channel groups) will not be listed in the Page Permission Manager. These groups are managed internally.

### Paypal API 

Paypal's Payment API has been added as a vBulletin Gateway. The new gateway will allow Administrators to move away from Paypal's IPN functionality and add new payment methods to their site.

> Please note that the IPN Gateway is now considered deprecated and can be removed in the future.


### Article Sorting

The Article Channel Display module now allows sorting of articles by Display Order, Date - last update, Date - Started Post, Replies, Title, Members, and Reactions in addition to Publish Date. You can order the results as ascending or descending as well. The default sorting is Publish Date ordered by descending dates.

To control the Display Order of your articles visit the AdminCP and go to Articles → List Content. 

### New Template Markup

A new vBulletin Markup tag to test for usergroups was added to the system. This tag provides simpler markup to check if a user belongs to a specific usergroup over using the <vb:if> markup with ismemberof() code from previous versions.

Usage:

```
<vb:usergroup groupid="2">Your are in the registered usergroup.</vb:usergoup>

<vb:usergroup notgroupid="2">You are not part of the registered usergroup.</vb:usergroup>

// You can also check multiple groups:
<vb:usergroup groupid="X,Y,Z"><!-- Custom Code Block -→</vb:usergroup>
```


### Template Organization

Global page templates have been grouped in the Style Manager template list. The affected templates include: header, bare_header, footer, bare_footer, head_include, page_date, and preheader. Each template has had the `page_` prefix added to their names. If you use these templates in custom coding, please adjust accordingly.

#### Template Grouping

vBulletin will now match the longest group name to reduce the improper merging. Due to this, some groups will be split compared to previous versions. For example, previously `subscription` and `subscriptions` would be treated as the same group even though the templates aren't related to each other. Now they are separate.

### Cache Limits

Cache Limits have been added to prevent large database caches on some server configurations. The limits consist of two new configuration variables: 

- maxtablesize - defines the maximum size of your cache and cacheevents tables in megabytes. 
- maxtabledeletecount - the number of unexpired records to delete from your cache tables.

To configure the variables for this new feature, copy the lines below into your /core/includes/config.php file:

~~~
$config['Cache']['maxtablesize'] = 500; //When clearing expired cache items if the cache table exceed this size (in Mb) additonal items will be removed.
$config['Cache']['maxtabledeletecount'] = 0; //Number of (unexpired) records to remove when the cache tables are too big.  If 0 then empty the cache.
~~~

Note: When installing a new instance, they are already included in the /core/includes/config.php.new file.
### Javascript

- Removed the inline javascript for Page Definition. This now uses a HTML's data attributes to build this object.
- Removed more inline Javascript from the AdminCP.
- Added cache busting to AdminCP Javascript.
- Moved the jQuery fallback out of inline Javascript.

### Additional

- **Node Tools → Open** The ability to mass open topics has been added to the AdminCP under Node Tools.
- **Posting Options** are no longer available on the Home node. 
- Improved the indexing of text with accent characters (For example: à, é, and õ) . Previously, search indexing could skip these characters if a similar word without accents was indexed first.
- Payment Gateway currency symbols can now be edited outside of debug mode. You can add new currencies in the AdminCP under Settings → Options → Paid Subscriptions. Please note that your payment gateway will still need to be able to support the currency as defined.
- The Today's Birthday module will be automatically hidden if there are no active birthdays on the date.
- Consolidated the default Terms of Service from three different phrases and locations to a single location.
### Todo

Template Edits for Cloud?

Cache Limiting

Article Sorting

#release_notes 
