

### Reputation Display

- Reputation levels moved to User Ranks. Redundant Systems removed.
- Admins can control the look and feel of reputation on their sites easier with User Ranks than the previous system. Instead of relying on a hardcoded algorithm in which the graphic and reputation level would get out of sync, it is all controlled via the User Rank Manager.
- To add new Reputation Levels, you simply need to add a new rank within the Reputation Rank Group.

### vb:every

New tag added to allow limited templates to process items in a loop. For instance, show an ad every 5th post.

### Promotions

Based on customer request, Administrators can now create "promotions" that move users out of custom usergroups based on their last post date. The use case is that a user was moved to a custom VIP usergroup based on their participation but is no longer posting to the site.

Applying this type of promotion can be resource intensive. Hardcoded batch limits of 5000 users was added to processing the entire user list to reduce impact.

## Calendar Improvements

- Database requires virtual field support (MYSQL 5.7+)
- user table is required to be INNODBD to support virtual fields.
- Style variables for birthday color display.
- Turn off and on via the Calendar module.
-  Will have an option to control lookback period for active users.

Holidays on Calendar.

Admins can specify holidays in the AdminCP. These can include a custom HTML

### Word filters consolidated.

Allow specific words on "Detect Word as Spam"

### Signature Picture Restored

This feature has been refactored to work properly. After an upgrade, the user will need to re-upload their image.

### Private Message Node tools.

Due to privacy, administrators cannot view a user's private messages within the AdminCP. This can impeded deleting private messages in the Node Tools. A new administrator permission has been added to bypass the security in place. The bypass can expose titles but not the content of messages.

---
Active status added to ranks. If this is changed, you must rebuild ranks in the AdminCP under Maintenance → General Update Tools.


Active members option has been restored. It allows the Admin to determine how long a user is considered active since their last visit. In addition to this, an option to hide inactive members from the Birthday Module has been added.